# Eventfy project
## About
This repository is the app server of my Eventify application. This project was used to gain experience in working with javascript and learning how to build a full stack application. This application allows users to create, manage and share events. Users can create events, create groups, invite other users to events and groups, create events in groups and much more. The project also includes a calander that is automatically updated with the events relevant to the user. This application also contains basic authentication to ensure that user credentials cannot be stolen. The front-end is made with javascript and a little typescript with the React library and Tailwind framework. The back-end in build with javascript with the Express web application framework. Feel free to look at/use the code. Beware however, this is my first ever javascript project. There will be a lot of bugs/inefficiencies.
## Features/What I learned
- Front-end in javascript/typescript with React library and Tailwind framework.
- Back-end in javascript with Express framework.
- Authentication using Firebase Authentication.
- Storing data in the cloud database Firestore.
- Creating, managing and sharing events and groups.
- A calendar displaying the different events in time of the current user.
## Development challenges
This project was my first experience trying to develop a full stack application. Working with the different libraries and frameworks was confusing at first, but after watching many tutorials it started making sense. After learning the basics of javascript, I started working on the front-end with a basic back-end. At first, I build the front-end with pure css and html. I found it very hard to make the site look pretty. Luckily, a friend introduced me to the Tailwind css framework. It took some time to learn how to use Tailwind, but the site was making good progress on how it looked. Meanwhile, I was also adding some basic functionality to the back-end and also created a test setup. This allowed me to more easily debug and test the application. Then, I kept working on both the front-end and back-end alternately to keep adding more features. After having enough features, it was time to develop authentication. I had already worked with Firebase Authentication before because of university. So implementing this did not take much time. Then, I wanted to use a cloud database to store the different events and groups. I could not decide between MongoDB and Firestore. Eventually, I chose Firestore because it integrated easily with the Firebase Authentication. All information about the authentication and database could easily be found in the Firestore console. This is the current state of the project. I could still update this project in the future but this was mainly meant to be a learning experience.
